ON THIS EDITION FOR SATURDAY,
AUGUST, 16:
>> Sreenivasan: NEW AMERICAN
AIRSTRIKES IN NORTHERN IRAQ
AFTER ISLAMIC EXTREMISTS
MASSACRE DOZENS.
TEXAS GOVERNOR RICK PERRY IS
INDICTED ON FELONY CHARGES.
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT?
AND UNCONVENTIONAL EFFORTS TO
BOOST DECLINING MUSEUM
ATTENDANCE BY TRYING TO ATTRACT
YOUNG PEOPLE.
>> IF PEOPLE COME TO THE MUSEUM
AND THEY ARE NOT ENTERTAINED,
THEN THEY ARE GONNA BE TUNED
OUT.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS IN
LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
AMERICAN JETS TODAY HIT
POSITIONS NEAR A KEY DAM IN
NORTHERN IRAQ THAT THAT HAD BEEN
CAPTURED RECENTLY BY ISLAMIC
EXTREMISTS.
THIS, A DAY AFTER THE EXTREMISTS
MEMBERS OF THE ISLAMIC STATE ARE
SAID TO HAVE MASSACRED DOZENS OF
YAZIDIS.
THE EXTREMISTS REPORTEDLY HAD
DEMANDED MEMBERS OF THAT
RELIGIOUS MINORITY CONVERT TO
ISLAM.
FOR ABOUT ALL OF THIS, WE ARE
JOINED NOW VIA SKYPE FROM DUHOK
IN NORTHERN IRAQ BY LIZ SLY OF
THE WASHINGTON POST.
SO, WE’VE HEARD ABOUT SEVERAL
MORE AIR STRIKES IN THE REGION
THIS MORNING.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US?
>> Reporter: ALL WE KNOW IS
THERE HAVE BEEN SOME BIG
EXPLOSIONS AROUND THAT DAM AT
ISIS POSITIONS.
WE HAVE BEEN HEARING REPORTS
FROM RESIDENTS ABOUT THAT.
IT IS NOT CLEAR AT THIS MOMENT
WHETHER THE U.S. HAS BEEN
INVOLVED BUT WE KNOW THEY HAVE
BEEN INVOLVED IN A LOT OF THE
OTHER AIR STRIKES GOING ON
AROUND THAT AREA AND I THINK IT
IS EXPECTED THESE WERE U.S.
STRIKES.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DO WE
KNOW ABOUT THE AREA WHERE THE
MOST RECEIPT MASSACRE OCCURRED?
>> THIS IS A SMALL VILLAGE
SOUTHEAST OF SIN JAR, THE
ASSAULT ON THE YEZIDIS A COUPLE
OF WEEKS AGO TRIGGERED THIS
CRISIS.
IT’S IN A VERY SMALL VILLAGE, A
REMOTE AREA.
REPORTS HAVE BEEN SKETCHY BUT WE
KNOW AT ABOUT 1:00 YESTERDAY
FIGHTERS WITH THE ISLAMIC STATE
DID GO INTO THAT VILLAGE AND
THEY APPARENTLY KILLED-- WE HAVE
A NUMBER OF 84 MEN.
THEY LINED THEM UP AND EXECUTED
THEM AND THEY TOOK AWAY AROUND
300 WOMEN.
>> Sreenivasan: IS THERE ANY
CONNECTION BETWEEN THE TIMING OF
WHEN PRESIDENT OBAMA SAID THAT
THE HUMANITARIAN OPERATIONS ON
THE MOUNTAIN ARE DONE?
>> THE SITUATION ON THE MOUNTAIN
HAS GREATLY IMPROVED.
>> Sreenivasan: AND WHEN THESE
PEOPLE WENT IN FOR THE MASSACRE?
>> Reporter: YES, THAT’S WHAT
A LOT OF YEZIDIS AND SOME KURDS
ARE TELL US.
THEY BELIEVE IT’S A DIRECT
CONNECTION BETWEEN PRESIDENT
OBAMA CALLING OFF THE
HUMANITARIAN AIR LIFT OF YEZIDIS
WHICH HAD BEEN PLANNED IN THE
MOUNTAIN NEARBY AND THE ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTERS GOING IN AND
KILLING THESE PEOPLE.
THEY HAD BEEN SURROUNDING THESE
PEOPLE FAIR WEEK, DEMANDING THEY
CONVERT OR RISK DEATH.
SO IT COULD BE THAT THEY WERE
PLANNING TO GO IN ANYWAY, BUT A
LOT OF PEOPLE FEEL THAT WAS A
SENSE THAT THEY WERE OFF THE
HOOK, A GREEN LIGHT, IF YOU
LIKE, FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA TO
CONTINUE KILLING IN THE AREA.
>> Sreenivasan: HAVE THEY MADE
MORE ADVANCED IN THE REGION
SINCE THE HUMORITARIAN CRISIS
THAT REALLY OCCUPIED MOST OF OUR
HEADLINES HERE IN THE WEST?
>> Reporter: THEY HAVE BEEN
CONTINUING TO ADVANCE THROUGHOUT
THIS TIME.
THEY NEVER REALLY STOPPED.
THE AIR STRIKES DID HELP THEM ON
THE OUTSKIRT OFS OF ERBIL BUT
THEY MADE GAINS DOWN NEAR THE
IRANIAN BORDER, AND THEY’VE BEEN
MAKING A LOT OF GAINS RECENTLY
IN THE NORTHERN ALEPPO COUNTRY,
IN SYRIA, A FURTHER EDGE OF THE
AREA THEY CONTROL.
THEY’VE BEEN TAKING A LOT OF
SMALL TOWNS AND VILLAGES AROUND
ALEPPO IN THE PAST FEW DAYS, AND
PEOPLE ARE VERY AFRAID THAT THE
SYRIAN REBELS THERE ARE GOING TO
LOSE CONTROL OF THE BORDER WITH
TURKEY AND PERHAPS THE TOWN OF
ALEPPO ITSELF.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THE
TALK THAT PERHAPS THE U.S.
MILITARY AID COULD COME TO
KURDISTAN OR OTHER EUROPEAN
COUNTRIES COULD ASSIST IN THIS
FIGHT?
>> Reporter: WELL, IT’S MY
UNDERSTANDING THAT U.S. MILITARY
AID HAS ALREADY ARRIVED IN
KURDISTAN.
IT WAS ANNOUNCED EARLIER THIS
WEEK THAT THE U.S. WAS PREPARED
TO SEND THE AID DIRECTLY TO
KURDISTAN.
THEY ARE COORDINATING THIS WITH
BAGHDAD.
THEY ARE NOT BYPASSING THE
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IN BAGHDAD.
THEY’RE NOT CUTTING A SEPARATE
DEAL WITH KURDISTAN, IF YOU
LIKE.
BUT THEY ARE SENDING ARMS.
IT’S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT SOME
HAVE ALREADY ARRIVED.
>> Sreenivasan: LIZ SLY OF THE
"WASHINGTON POST" JOINING US
HAVE A SKYPE FROM IRAQ, THANKS
SO MUCH.
>> Reporter: THANK YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: IN TEXAS TODAY,
GOVERNOR RICK PERRY SAID HE IS
INNOCENT OF ANY WRONGDOING.
YESTERDAY, A GRAND JURY IN
AUSTIN INDICTED THE PRESIDENTIAL
HOPEFUL ON TWO FELONY COUNTS OF
ABUSE OF POWER SOMETHING HE SAYS
HE IS ACTUALLY A VICTIM OF.
>> WE DON’T SETTLE POLITICAL
DIFFERENCES WITH INDICTMENTS IN
THIS COUNTRY.
IT IS OUTRAGEOUS THAT SOME WOULD
USE PARTISAN POLITICAL THEATRICS
TO RIP AWAY AT THE VERY FABRIC
OF OUR STATE’S CONSTITUTION.
THIS INDICTMENT AMOUNTS TO
NOTHING MORE THAN ABUSE OF POWER
AND I CANNOT, AND I WILL NOT,
ALLOW THAT TO HAPPEN.
>> Sreenivasan: WE’LL HAVE AN
INTERVIEW FROM AUSTIN RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY.
IN MISSOURI TODAY, GOVERNER JAY
NIXON DECLARED A STATE OF
EMERGENCY AND IMPOSED A MIDNIGHT
TO 5:00 A.M. CURFEW IN FERGUSON
TO TRY TO END THE VIOLENCE
THERE.
FOLLOWING THE FATAL SHOOTING
OF A WEEK AGO OF AN UNARMED
AFRICAN AMERICAN TEENAGER.
THERE WERE PEACEFUL PROTEST THIS
AFTERNOON AFTER RENEWED UNREST
OVERNIGHT.
PROTESTERS DEIFIED POLICE CALLS
TO DISBURSE AND LOOTED AT LEAST
THREE STORES.
SOME STORE OWNERS
COMPLAINED THE POLICE, ACCUSED
OF USING EXCESSIVE FORCE EARLIER
IN THE WEEK DID NOT DO ENOUGH TO
STOP THE LOOTERS LAST NIGHT.
TURNING NOW BACK OVERSEAS
TENSIONS REMAIN HIGH ALONG THE
BORDER BETWEEN UKRAINE AND
RUSSIA, AFTER REPORTS YESTERDAY
THAT THE UKRAINIAN MILITARY HAD
DESTROYED AN ARMED RUSSIAN
CONVOY THAT HAD ENTERED UKRAINE.
FOR MORE ABOUT THE CONFLICT AND
EFFORTS TO END IT BEFORE IT
ESCALATES FURTHER, WE ARE JOINED
FROM MOSCOW VIA SKYPE BY JAMES
MARSON OF THE WALL STREET
JOURNAL.
SO, YESTERDAY THERE WAS SOME
CONFUSION ON WHETHER OR NOT THE
EVENT HAPPENED AT ALL.
THE UKRAINIANS SAY THEY DID AWAY
WITH A RUSSIAN MILITARY CONVOY.
THE RUSSIAN CALL IT A FANTASY.
WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT IT?
>> Reporter: THAT’S RIGHT.
THIS CALL-UP OF ABOUT 20 ARMORED
VEHICLE CROSSED OVER THE
RUSSIAN-UKRAINIAN BORDER
THURSDAY EVENING, SPOTTED BY TWO
BRITISH REPORTERS.
THEY SNUCK AROUND THE BORDER
POST AND ENTERED UKRAINE.
UKRAINE YESTERDAY SAID THAT IT
HAD DESTROYED THIS ARMORED
COLUMN.
RUSSIA DISMISSED THIS AS A
FANTASY.
AND UKRAINE HAS SO FAR PROVIDED
NO PICTURES OF THIS.
IT ROYALED THE MARKET BECAUSE
EVERYONE WAS FEARFUL THE
DESTRUCTION OF THE COLUMN WOULD
LEAD TO A WIDER CONFLICT IN
RUSSIA AND UKRAINE.
BUT IN FACT, TODAY, UKRAINE HAS
TRIED TO PLAY IT DAY SAYING THIS
IS QUITE A REGULAR OCCURRENCE,
THAT RUSSIA KEEPS SEND THESE
COLUMNS ACROSS.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT’S IN
THEIR INTEREST TO MAKE THIS UP?
>> Reporter: WELL, UKRAINE,
OBVIOUSLY, WANTS TO MAKE IT SEEM
LIKE IT WAS HAVING MILITARY
SUCCESS AGAINST THE SEPARATISTS.
IT DOESN’T WANT TO LOOK LIKE
IT’S EASY FOR THE RUSSIANS TO
SEND WEAPONS AND MEN INTO THE
EAST.
UKRAINE HAS BEEN FIGHTING THIS
PRO-RUSSIAN INSURGENCY FOR
AROUND FOUR MONTHS.
IT’S BEEN HAVING SIGNIFICANT
SUCCESSES IN RECENT WEEKS.
IT’S MANAGED TO PUSH THE REBELS
OUT OF A LOT OF TOWNS AND
CITIES, AND THEY WANT TO KEEP
THAT MOMENTUM GOING.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT
THAT AID CONVOY?
WE’VE SEEN THOSE PICTURES OF
THOSE HUNDREDS OF TRUCKS THAT
ARE WAITING ON THE BORDER.
ARE THEY ANY CLOSER TO GETTING
THROUGH?
>> Reporter: THEY SEEM TO BE
STUCK ON THE BORDER AT THE
MOMENT.
THEY’RE PARKED UP IN A FIELD A
FEW MILES FROM THE BORDER
CROSSING.
THE UKRAINIANS SAY THEY’RE
WAITING FOR PAPERWORK WHICH WILL
ALLOW THEM TO CROSS.
THE RUSSIANS SAY THE UKRAINE
RANS ARE NOT ALLOWING THEM TO GO
ACROSS.
THERE’S A LOT OF FINGER
POINTING.
UKRAINE IS SENDING THEIR OWN AID
COLUMN, SO THERE ARE A LOT OF
PEOPLE IN BESIEGED TOWNS WAITING
FOR AID AND NOT RECEIVING IT.
>> Sreenivasan: ANY ADVANCING
ON THE DIPLOMATIC FRONT?
>> THE DIPLOMATIC FRONT WAS
FROZEN FOR A VERY LONG TIME BUT
NOW IT APPEARS TO BE COMING BACK
TO LIFE.
THE FINNISH PRESIDENT WAS IN
RUSSIA YESTERDAY MEETING
VLADIMIR PUTIN.
TODAY, HE IS IN UKRAINE, MEETING
THE UKRAINIAN PRESIDENT.
TOMORROW, THE FRENCH, GERMAN,
UKRAINIAN, AND RUSSIAN FOREIGN
MINISTERS WILL NEAT IN BERLIN.
THERE SEEMS TO BE A CONCERTED
DIPLOMATIC PUSH TO FIND A
RESOLUTION HERE.
NOW, IT COULD BE DIFFICULT TO
FIND THAT RESOLUTION.
UKRAINE HAS BEEN PUSHED WITH ITS
MILITARY OPERATIONS AS IT SEEMS
SOFEEL IT CAN PUSH THE REBELS
OUT.
>> Sreenivasan: JAMES MARSON
FROM THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
JOIN US LIVE FROM MOSCOW.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH
>> Sreenivasan: IN SOUTH KOREA
TODAY, DURING AN OUTDOOR MASS
ATTENDED BY HUNDREDS OF
THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE, POPE
FRANCIS BEATIFIED 124 KOREANS
WHO HAD BEEN KILLED DURING THE
18TH AND 19TH CENTURIES FOR
REFUSING TO RENOUNCE
CHRISTIANITY.
BEATIFICATION IS ONE OF THE
STEPS TOWARD SAINTHOOD.
THE POPE ALSO SPOKE ABOUT INCOME
INEQUALITY, SAYING "ALONGSIDE
IMMENSE WEALTH, DIRE POVERTY IS
SILENTLY GROWING" AND "THE CRY
OF THE POOR IS SELDOM HEEDED."
MEXICO IS PROTESTING THE
DEPLOYMENT OF U.S. NATIONAL
GUARDSMEN ALONG ITS BORDER WITH
TEXAS.
LATE YESTERDAY, THE FOREIGN
MINISTRY ISSUED A STATEMENT
SAYING, NO CIRCUMSTANCE OR
CHANGE IN BORDER SECURITY EXISTS
THAT JUSTIFIES THIS MEASURE.
GOVERNOR PERRY IS PLANNING TO
SEND ONE THOUSAND GUARDSMEN TO
HELP SECURE THE BORDER FOLLOWING
A WAVE OF ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION
INTO THE UNITED STATES
FROM BERLIN TODAY, WORD THAT
GERMANY’S INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
EAVESDROPPED ON CALLS MADE BY
AMERICAN SECRETARIES OF STATE,
HILLARY CLINTON AND JOHN KERRY.
ACCORDING TO "DER SPIEGEL,"
WHICH BROKE THE STORY, THE
TAPPING WAS ACCIDENTAL.
THE MAGAZINE SAID THE CALLS WERE
MADE ON THE SAME FREQUENCY AS
CALLS PLACED BY A TERROR
SUSPECT.
THE U.S. HAS BEEN SHARPLY
CRITICIZED IN GERMANY FOR
EAVESDROPPING ON CHANCELLOR
ANGELA MERKEL AND OTHER GERMAN
OFFICIALS.
IN CHINA TODAY, OPENING
CEREMONIES AT THE YOUTH
OLYMPICS.
THE INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC
COMMITTEE HAS BARRED ATHLETES
FROM SEVERAL WEST AFRICAN
NATIONS FROM COMPETING IN COMBAT
SPORTS AND SWIMMING EVENTS OUT
OF CONCERN THAT THEY MAY HAVE
BEEN EXPOSED TO THE EBOLA VIRUS.
MORE THAN 1,000 PEOPLE HAVE DIED
IN THE OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA.
THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
AGRICULTURE HAS ISSUED NEW
REGULATIONS DESIGNED TO RESTRICT
THE NUMBER OF PUPPIES SHIPPED
INTO THIS COUNTRY FROM OVERSEAS
OFTEN FROM CHINA AND EASTERN
EUROPE.
THE NEW REGULATIONS, WHICH GO
INTO EFFECT IN 90 DAYS, WILL
REQUIRE THAT ALL PUPPIES
IMPORTED INTO THE U.S. BE AT
LEAST SIX MONTHS OLD, HEALTHY
AND UP TO DATE ON VACCINATIONS.
ANIMAL WELFARE WORKERS SAY THAT
ONE QUARTER OF THE THOUSANDS OF
PUPPIES SHIPPED, DIE ON THE WAY
HERE.
A MILESTONE OF SORTS ABOUT HOW
AMERICANS ARE GETTING OUR
INFORMATION AND BEING
ENTERTAINED AT HOME.
A REPORT RELEASED YESTERDAY SAYS
FOR THE FIRST TIME EVER, CABLE
COMPANIES HAVE MORE INTERNET
SUBSCRIBERS THAN TV SUBSCRIBERS
EACH AT JUST UNDER 50 MILLION.
CABLE TV SUBSCRIPTIONS ARE DOWN
BECAUSE OF COMPETITION FROM
SATELLITE TV PROVIDERS AND
TELEPHONE COMPANIES.
A TEAM OF COLLEGE STUDENTS FOUND
THOUSANDS OF ARTIFACTS FROM THE
MID-1700s NEAR LAKE GEORGE IN
UPSTATE NEW YORK.
THE AREA WAS THE SCENE OF
MILITARY ACTIVITY FOR NEARLY A
QUARTER CENTURY, STARTING WITH
THE FRENCH AND INDIAN WAR IN
1755, THROUGH THE AMERICAN
REVOLUTION.
AMONG THE OBJECTS FOUND WERE
UNIFORM BUTTONS AND MUSKET
BALLS.
>> Sreenivasan: THE FIRST
GOVERNOR IN TEXAS TO BE INDICTED
IN A HUNDRED YEARS, THOSE WERE
THE HEADLINES LATE LAST NIGHT
ABOUT GOVERNOR RICK PERRY AND
WHAT A GRAND JURY SAYS WAS HIS
ABUSE OF POWER.
TO EXPLAIN WHAT’S BEHIND IT ALL
IS TONY PLOHETSKI FROM THE
AUSTIN AMERICAN STATESMAN.
LET’S TALK ABOUT THE INCIDENT IN
QUESTION.
WHAT IS IT THAT RICK PERRY
ALLEGEDLY DID THAT WAS AN ABUSE
OF HIS POWER?
>> Reporter: WELL, IT ALL
STARTED MORE THAN A YEAR AGO IN
APRIL, 2013.
THE SITTING DISTRICT ATTORNEY
HERE IN TRAVIS COUNTY, ROSEMARY
LINDBERG, WAS ARRESTED AND
CHARGED WITH DRUNK DRIVING.
TWO MONTHS AFTER THAT, WHILE THE
LEGISLATURE WAS FINISHING THEIR
SESSION, GOVERNOR RICK PERRY WAS
ABOUT TO SIGN THE STATE’S BUDGET
AND DURING THAT TIME, HE IS
ACCUSED OF SENDING WORD TO
DISTRICT ATTORNEY ROSEMARY
LINDBERG-- RESIGN OR I AM GOING
TO VETO AN ITEM IN THE STATE
BUDGET TO WITHHOLD $7.2 MILLION
IN FUNDING TO YOUR OFFICE."
ROSEMARY LINDBERG, THE DISTRICT
ATTORNEY, IS A DEMOCRAT.
RICK PERRY IS, OF COURSE, A
REPUBLICAN.
SPHWHRAR SO WHY IS THAT AN APUCE
OF POWER?
IS THAT NOT WITHIN HIS RIGHT AS
A GOVERNOR TO VETO ITEMS FROM
THE BUDGET?
>> Reporter: WELL, THAT IS THE
KEY QUESTION HERE.
THE GOVERNOR’S CAMP STEADFASTLY
SAYS, "LISTEN, THE GOVERNOR WAS
DOING JUST THAT.
HE WAS EXERCISING HIS LINE ITEM
VETO AUTHORITY."
BUT WHAT THE PROSECUTION AND
THESE GRAND JURORS ESSENTIALLY
HAVE SAID, "WELL, YES, GOVERNOR,
YOU MAY HAVE BEEN DOING THAT,
BUT YOU ALSO ATTACHED A THREAT
TO IT, SO THAT CHANGES THE
DYNAMIC.
YES, YOU MAY HAVE LEGALLY USED
YOUR VETO AUTHORITY, BUT
POTENTIALLY YOU DID SOMETHING
ILLEGAL BY ATTACHING A THREAT TO
THAT VETO."
>> Sreenivasan: NONE OF THIS
HAPPENS IN A POLITICAL VACUUM.
THERE ARE REPUBLICANS WHO SAY
THE PUBLIC INTEGRITY UNIT THAT
WAS UNDERNEATH THIS PROSECUTOR
WENT AFTER REPUBLICANS FAR MORE
AGGRESSIVELY THAN IT DID
DEMOCRATS.
>> Reporter: RIGHT.
THAT IS A DECADES-LONG, YOU
KNOW, DISPUTE BETWEEN
REPUBLICANS AND THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY.
THE D.A.’S OFFICE HERE IN TRAVIS
COUNTY OPERATES THE PUBLIC
INTEGRITY UNIT.
THE MONEY THAT THE GOVERNOR
VETOED WAS EAR MARK FORWARD THAT
UNIT.
THAT UNIT IS TASKED WITH
INVESTIGATING STATE ETHICS
VIOLATIONS AMONG ALL STATE
OFFICIALS.
THEIR JURISDICTION IS NOT JUST
TRAVIS COUNTY.
AND SO FOR YEARS REPUBLICANS
HAVE ALLEGED THAT THE D.A.’S
OFFICE IS GOING AFTER
REPUBLICANS AND THEIR PARTY.
THE D.A.’S OFFICE HERE HAS BEEN
LED BY DEMOCRATS FOR DECADES.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, SO
WHAT HAPPENS NEXT IN THE LEGAL
PROCESS FOR THE GOVERNOR?
WHAT DOES THE GOVERNOR’S OFFICE
DO ABOUT IT?
>> WELL, SOME TIME DURING THE
NEXT SEVERAL DAYS, GOVERNOR RICK
PERRY IS EXPECTED TO COME TO THE
TRAVIS COUNTY COURTHOUSE AND
TURN HIMSELF IN, JUST LIKE ANY
OTHER INDICTED CRIMINAL
DEFENDANT.
HE WILL BE FINGERPRINTED.
HE WILL HAVE HIS MUG SHOT TAKEN,
AND THEN RELEASED ON POND.
HE WILL HAVE TO, AT SOME POINT,
THOUGH, ANSWER FOR THESE CHARGES
POTENTIALLY IN COURT.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT,
TONY PLOHETSKI FROM THE "AUSTIN
AMERICAN STATESMAN" THANK YOU
FOR JOINING US TODAY.
>> Reporter: THANKS FOR HAVING
ME.
>> Sreenivasan: ACCORDING TO THE
NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS,
THE NUMBER OF AMERICANS WHO
VISIT AN ART GALLERY OR MUSEUM
HAS BEEN DECLINING STEADILY FOR
MANY YEARS NOW.
ATTENDANCE IS ESPECIALLY LOW
AMONG YOUNG PEOPLE.
NOW, A FEW ENTERPRISING YOUNG
ART LOVERS HAVE COME UP WITH
SOME UNCONVENTIONAL PLANS TO
REVERSE THE DECLINE.
THE NEWSHOUR’S HANNAH YI
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: IT’S FRIDAY AND IN
A FEW HOURS ETHAN ANGELICA AND
JESSYE HERRELL WILL HOST A SMALL
GET TOGETHER.
THEY’RE GOING THROUGH THEIR
CHECKLIST TO MAKE SURE
EVERYTHING’S READY.
THERE WILL BE GAMES AND MUSIC,
TOO.
♪
THEIR AGENDA TONIGHT IS TO
RECRUIT A NEW GENERATION OF
MUSEUM GOERS BY HELPING THEM
HAVE FUN ONCE THEY GET THERE.
THEY SAY IT’S IMPORTANT BECAUSE
OF THE DECLINING MUSEUM
ATTENDANCE BY YOUNG PEOPLE.
>> THEY HAVEN’T HISTORICALLY
BEEN POSITED AS THE MOST HIP
SPACES.
>> Reporter: SANDRA JACKSON-
DUMONT OVERSEES EDUCATION
PROGRAMS AT THE METROPOLITAN
MUSEUM OF ART.
SHE SAYS MANY MILLENNIALS THOSE
BETWEEN THE AGES OF 18 AND 33
DON’T GO TO MUSEUMS BECAUSE
THEY’VE NEVER HAD THE RIGHT
INTRODUCTION.
>> THERE WERE MOMENTS IN TIME
WHERE ARTS EDUCATION WAS A PART
OF BASIC EDUCATION LIKE IT WAS
JUST NORMALIZED BEHAVIOR.
AND THERE’S THIS NEW GENERATION
OF FOLKS THEN THAT REPRESENT IN
MANY WAYS A BODY OF PEOPLE THAT
ACTUALLY DIDN’T HAVE ARTS
EDUCATION IN SCHOOL.
>> Reporter: JACKSON-DUMONT SAYS
MUSEUMS ARE ALSO COMPETING WITH
A VARIETY OF CULTURAL ACTIVITIES
LIKE FOOD FAIRS, STREET ART AND
EVEN ONLINE LECTURES.
NICK GRAY IS 32 YEARS OLD AND
LOVES MUSEUMS.
HE GOES SEVERAL TIMES A WEEK BUT
KNOWS HE’S IN THE MINORITY.
>> MAYBE PEOPLE HAD A BAD
EXPERIENCE WHEN THEY WERE
GROWING UP AT A MUSEUM.
MAYBE THEY WERE TAKEN TO MUSEUMS
AS KIDS, AND IT WAS A SNOOZE
FEST.
IT WAS SUPER BORING, OR THEY
WERE DRAGGED THERE BY THEIR
PARENTS.
AND FOR ONE REASON OR ANOTHER,
THE VAST MAJORITY OF PEOPLE HAVE
CHECKED OUT OF MUSEUMS.
>> Reporter: SO HOW DO YOU GET
MILLENNIALS TO CHECK INTO
MUSEUMS, AND GET THEM TO KEEP
GOING BACK?
GRAY DECIDED TO HIRE YOUNG
MUSEUM LOVERS LIKE JESSYE
HERRELL AND ETHAN ANGELICA, AND
HE CREATED A COMPANY CALLED
MUSEUM HACK.
WITH THE PERMISSION FROM THE MET
AND THE AMERICAN MUSEUM OF
NATURAL HISTORY, HIS COMPANY
GIVES SMALL GROUP TOURS.
THEIR STRATEGY IS SIMPLE: JAZZ
UP THE TRADITIONAL TOUR BY DOING
SOMETHING COMPLETELY DIFFERENT.
>> SOME PEOPLE IN BIG MUSEUMS
STILL BELIEVE THAT THE MUSEUM
EXPERIENCE IS MEANT FOR YOU TO
SIT DOWN IN FRONT OF THE OBJECT
AND LET ITS MAJESTY WASH OVER
YOU.
AND YOU WILL BE BAPTIZED BY THE
LIGHT OF THIS AWESOME ART.
YOU LOOK AT THE OBJECTS INSIDE
OF A MUSEUM THAT ARE PLACED
THERE BY CURATORS WHO HAVE DONE
AN AWESOME JOB, BUT ARE
SOMETIMES CURATING FOR THE OTHER
CURATORS AND NOT FOR THE
VISITORS.
IF PEOPLE COME TO THE MUSEUM AND
THEY ARE NOT ENTERTAINED, THEN
THEY ARE GONNA BE TUNED OUT.
>> Reporter: MUSEUM HACK
TYPICALLY CATERS TO MILLENNIALS
AND PARENTS WITH YOUNG CHILDREN,
CHARGING $39 PER PERSON PER TOUR
IN ADDITION TO THE DONATION
VISITORS ARE ENCOURAGED TO MAKE
TO THE MUSEUM.
THE MUSEUM DOESN’T CHARGE THE
COMPANY ANYTHING TO CONDUCT THE
TOURS.
>> WE’RE GONNA GET YOU TO ENGAGE
WITH THE PIECE OF ART.
ASSUME THE POSITION.
WE’RE GONNA HOLD IT FOR JUST A
SECOND.
FRIENDS TAKE PHOTOS OF FRIENDS.
WE WANT YOU TO TAKE A SELFIE
WITH SOMETHING.
WE WANT YOU TO THROW SOMETHING
UP ON INSTAGRAM.
WE WANT YOU TO YOU KNOW TWEET
ABOUT SOMETHING.
>> Reporter: BUT THE MAIN
ATTRACTION IS THE STORIES THEY
TELL BEHIND THE ART AND HOW THEY
TELL IT.
>> WE’RE GONNA BRING IT TO YOU
ON A LEVEL THAT YOU’RE REALLY
COMFORTABLE WITH.
IT’S VERY COLLOQUIAL.
WE’RE NOT TRYING TO TALK, LIKE
SPEW BIG WORDS THAT YOU DON’T
KNOW OR THAT WE FEEL FANCY
BECAUSE WE DO KNOW.
>> AND WE’LL BREAK IT DOWN FOR
YOU LIKE REALLY SASSY.
>> REAL EASY, YEAH.
>> YEAH, REALLY SASSY.
>> I’D LIKE TO INTRODUCE YOU TO
THE ONE AND ONLY CARAVAGGIO, MY
NUMBER ONE DRINKING BUDDY AT THE
METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART.
IF YOU HAD TO DECIDE WHERE THE
LIGHT IS COMING FROM IN THIS
PAINTING, WHERE IS THE LIGHT
COMING FROM?
SEE HOW THERE’S THE "V" BETWEEN
THEIR SHOULDERS?
IT LOOKS LIKE THERE’S SOME
ORANGE THING SORT OF SPURTING UP
THERE.
THERE’S A FIREPLACE BACK THERE.
SO PART OF WHERE THE LIGHT IS
COMING FROM, IS THAT THE
FIREPLACE IS BOUNCING OFF THE
DUDE’S CHEST AND SHINING ONTO
THEIR FACES.
AND WHAT HE’S DOING IS
REFLECTING LIGHT AND PUTTING
SHINY (BLEEP) INTO THE CORNERS
JUST TO SORT OF KEEP IT REAL.
HE WAS ALSO KNOWN FOR THEATRICAL
LIGHTING SO IF YOU’RE LIKE A
FILMMAKER OR SOMETHING HE WAS
SORT OF LIKE THE INSPIRATION FOR
THAT.
>> TAKING THEM TO A PIECE LIKE
THIS AMAZING SCULPTURE OF DIANA
THAT’S IN THE COURTYARD OF THE
AMERICAN WING AT THE
METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART, AND
HOW DO WE COMPARE HER TO MAYBE
KIM KARDASHIAN.
AND HOW DO WE TALK ABOUT OTHER
OBJECTS IN THE MUSEUM AND PUT
THEM IN A LIGHT THAT PEOPLE CAN
UNDERSTAND AND CAN LAUGH ABOUT?
IT’S CREATING THESE POINTS OF
ACCESSIBILITY THAT ONLY GET
PEOPLE TO BE EXCITED AND SORT OF
ENERGIZED.
>> Reporter: AND WHAT DO YOU SAY
TO CRITICS WHO MIGHT SAY, "YOU
KNOW, THAT’S A LITTLE
DISRESPECTFUL TO ART TO KIND OF
LINK IT TO POP CULTURE LIKE KIM
KARDASHIAN?
THAT IT’S SORT OF IRREVERENT."
>> I WANT TO BE REALLY CAREFUL
BECAUSE A LOT OF PEOPLE TALK
ABOUT, IS WHAT WE’RE DOING JUST
DUMBING DOWN THE MUSEUM
EXPERIENCE?
AND I DON’T SEE IT LIKE THAT.
I SEE THAT WE’RE GONNA GET
PEOPLE EXCITED TO COME BACK TO
THE MUSEUM.
>> Reporter: SO WHY AREN’T
MUSEUMS LIKE THE ONES IN NEW
YORK CITY EMBRACING SORT OF YOUR
WAY OF GIVING TOURS?
>> I’D SAY THE AVERAGE MUSEUM
TOUR IS FIRST RUN BY A VOLUNTEER
WHO WORKS AND GIVES THEIR TIME
FREELY AT THE MUSEUM.
AND I BLESS THESE PEOPLE AND I
THANK THEM SO MUCH FOR WHAT THEY
DO.
HOWEVER, I DON’T THINK THAT
THOSE ARE THE BEST PEOPLE TO PUT
IN FRONT OF A DISENGAGED
AUDIENCE.
THE TOURS THAT MY COMPANY IN
CONTRAST ARE LED BY THESE TOUR
GUIDES WHO DEVELOP A ROUTE THAT
IS PURELY BASED ON THINGS THAT
THEY LOVE.
IT’S A ROUTE THAT IS BASED ON
AMAZING PIECES THAT HAVE CRAZY
STORIES.
>> Reporter: DO YOU FEEL LIKE
THAT’S A GOOD STRATEGY OR IS
THAT A GOOD WAY TO CULTIVATE AN
INTEREST IN ART IN YOUR OPINION?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I THINK THERE’S NO SILVER
BULLET.
NOW, I CAN TELL YOU THAT THOSE
LITTLE SALACIOUS DETAILS WOULD
NOT BE KNOWN WITHOUT THE
KNOWLEDGE OF THE CURATORS AND
THE PEOPLE THAT DID ALL THE DEEP
DOWN RESEARCH.
SO THEREIN LIES THE REALITY THAT
THERE IS A CERTAIN LEVEL OF
CODEPENDENCE THERE.
>> Reporter: THEN PERHAPS
EVERYONE’S WORKING TOWARDS THE
SAME GOAL: MAKING SURE THAT
YOUNG PEOPLE DON’T FORGET THAT
MUSEUMS ARE WORTH VISITING.
>> Sreenivasan: IS MUSEUM HACK A
GOOD IDEA BECAUSE IT MIGHT
ATTRACT YOUNG PEOPLE TO MUSEUMS?
OR IS UNNECESSARILY DUMBING DOWN
ART?
TELL US WHAT YOU THINK and VOTE
BY VISITING newshour.pbs.org OR
ON FACEBOOK.
>> Sreenivasan: SOME LATE NEWS
BEFORE WE LEAVE YOU TONIGHT.
THERE ARE REPORTS THERE SYRIA OF
ANOTHER MASSACRE BY ISLAMIC
STATE FIGHTERS.
A HUMAN RIGHTS MONITORING
ORGANIZATION IN THAT COUNTRY
SAYS 700 PEOPLE, MOST OF THEM
CIVILIANS, WERE EXECUTED DURING
THE PAST TWO WEEKS.
A NUMBER OF THOSE KILLED WHEN
REPORTEDLY BEHEADED.
THE ISLAMIC STATE REPORTEDLY
MASSACRED MEMBERS OF A RELIGIOUS
MINORITY IN IRAQ YESTERDAY AFTER
DEMANDING THEY CONVERT TO ISLAM.
TOMORROW, MARGARET WARNER
REPORTS FROM IRAQ AND A LOOK AT
WHAT’S BEHIND GENIUS.
I’M HARI SREENIVASAN.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.